#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Conclusions and Future Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nowadays, there is a great interest in RFID due to the number of applications
 used in this field.
 RFID systems provide low cost and low power object identification and tracking
 mechanisms.
 It is the key requirement for different ultra-dense applications, e.g., logistics
, access management and timing sports events.
 In such applications, dense number of tags is expected, which requires
 fast identification.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The main goal of the thesis is to increase the system throughput and to
 identify tags faster in the reader range.
 The transmission of tags is scheduled on the MAC layer with an anti-collision
 protocol called DFSA.
 The identification time directly depends on reading efficiency of the DFSA
 anti-collision protocol.
 The DFSA reading efficiency is controlled by two main parameters: the accuracy
 of number of tags estimation algorithm and the frame length optimization.
 Modern RFID receivers have been developed from the PHY layer.
 They have a collision recovery capability, which means that some of collided
 slots can be converted to successful slots.
 This capability reduces the losses from the collided slots.
 Moreover, modern RFID receivers have the capability to identify the type
 of slot and terminate it as soon as it recognizes that, it is not a successful
 slot.
 This capability reduces the losses from the empty slots.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The main focus of the thesis is to optimize the DFSA anti-collision algorithm
 taking into consideration the physical layer parameters e.g.
 the collision recovery capability and the differences in slots durations.
 Thus, the thesis aims to establish and propose advanced algorithms to increase
 the performance of the system.
 Since my work is focused on passive UHF RFID systems that work with simple
 tags which are only capable of in-complex operations, almost all proposed
 changes and signal processing is performed on the reader side except in
 chapter 6, a new compatible changes of EPCglobal C1 G2 standard are proposed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The advanced RFID readers, which are proposed in this thesis decrease the
 mean average of the FSA reading time.
 They incorporate different PHY layer parameters in order to efficiently
 optimize the MAC anti-collision protocols.
 The first three chapters gives an introduction to the UHF RFID systems,
 where the motivation of the work is discussed.
 In chapter 4 a novel closed form solution for a collision recovery aware
 ML estimator that considers the effects of the collision recovery probability
 of the RFID reader.
 The theoretical derivations lead to a new analytical estimator that can
 be easily implemented in RFID readers.
 Using the proposed formula, we need neither look-up tables nor numerical
 searching.
 Furthermore, the estimator gives more precise relative number of tags estimatio
n error compared to the other state-of-art proposals.
 Moreover, the proposed estimation algorithm reduces the total identification
 time by almost 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[10]{\%}$
\end_inset

 compared to the best other state-of-art solution.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With the sole optimization of number of tags estimation, there is still
 a room of improvement between the proposed algorithm and the theoretical
 lower identification time limit for the FSA by 
\begin_inset Formula $\simeq\unit[30]{\%}$
\end_inset

.
 In this regards, chapter 5 presents different proposals of FSA frame length
 optimization.
 The first proposal is called 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Time aware frame length
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 frame length.
 In this proposal, the frame length considers only the difference in slots
 durations is considered and no collision recovery effect is considered.
 A closed form solution for the optimum frame length is analytically derived.
 The proposed solution results 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[8]{\%}$
\end_inset

 average saving in reading time compared to the conventional FSA with frame
 length 
\begin_inset Formula $L=n$
\end_inset

.
 The second proposal is 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Multiple collision recovery aware
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 frame length.
 This proposal considers the differences between the collision recovery
 coefficients.
 Thus, it considers that, the collision recovery capability strongly depends
 on the number of the collided tags.
 However, this proposal assumes constant slots durations regardless the
 slot type.
 A closed form solution for the optimum frame length is analytically derived.
 The proposed solution results 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[12]{\%}$
\end_inset

 average saving in reading time compared to the conventional FSA with frame
 length 
\begin_inset Formula $L=n$
\end_inset

.
 The third proposal is 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Time and constant collision recovery coefficients aware
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 frame length.
 In this proposal, the frame length considers the time differences in slots
 durations and the collision recovery capability of the receiver.
 However, it assumes that the receiver has a constant collision recovery
 capability regardless the number of collided tags.
 A closed form solution is analyzed for the frame length.
 The proposed solution results 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[18]{\%}$
\end_inset

 average saving in reading time compared to the conventional FSA with frame
 length 
\begin_inset Formula $L=n$
\end_inset

.
 Finally, the fourth proposal is 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Time and multiple collision recovery aware
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 frame length.
 This proposal considers the differences in slots durations and the variable
 collision recovery coefficients.
 A closed form solution is analyzed for the frame length.
 The proposed solution results 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[22]{\%}$
\end_inset

 average saving in reading time compared to the conventional FSA with frame
 length 
\begin_inset Formula $L=n$
\end_inset

.
 For the proposed systems, there is still 
\begin_inset Formula $\simeq\unit[10]{\%}$
\end_inset

 room of improvement between the best proposed system and the theoretical
 limit of the EPCglobal C1 G2 standard 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "standard"

\end_inset

.
 The main reason of this is, the allowed optimization was only in the reader
 side.
 To follow the EPCglobal C1 G2 standard 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "standard"

\end_inset

, the tags could not be modified.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In chapter 6, backwards compatible improvement of the EPCglobal C1 G2 standard
 is proposed.
 It presents some modifications on the communication signal of Tag/reader.
 Using these modifications, the new system approaches the theoretical lower
 reading time limit of the EPCglobal C1 G2 standard.
 The proposed system is compatible with the EPCglobal C1 G2 standard, i.e.
 the proposed tags could be jointly operated with conventional tags and
 identified by conventional readers without affecting the performance.
 Additionally, conventional tags can also be operated together with the
 proposed tags and can be identified by the proposed reader.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Open Issues and Future Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Despite the effort invested in this dissertation, there are still some remaining
 issues left that require further investigations.
 For instance, the influence of the initial frame length of the proposed
 system is neglected, and the influence of the initial frame length should
 be analyzed.
 In addition, the MAC layer knowledge of the current SNR should send a feedback
 signal to the PHY layer.
 In this signal, the MAC layer decide to start resolving the current collided
 slot either to a successful or unsuccessful slot, depending on the current
 value of the SNR.
 Thereby, if the current SNR value is below a certain threshold, it might
 be better to leave this slot to a normal collided slot.
 On the other hand, when the current value of the SNR is above this threshold,
 it would be better to resolve this collided slot to a successful slot.
 Finally, a practical assessment of the proposed work through measurements
 would be beneficial for a more comprehensive evaluation.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
