#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Acknowledgment
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The completion of this thesis would not have been possible without Prof.
 Dr.- Ing Albert Heuberger’s support and patience, as he guided me throughout
 my doctoral studies with his unwavering enthusiasm, for which I am extremely
 grateful.
 Many thanks go to Dr.-Ing Joerg Robert for his support, guidance and for
 answering my never ending questions with pleasure.
 Moreover, I want to acknowledge the support of my colleagues in our research
 group at the University of Erlangen.
 It was a great pleasure working with you all.
 Thank you for your support.
 Special thanks go to my colleague Hamed Kenawy for the constructive cooperation
 during the entire thesis work.
 Last but not least, I would like to thank my family especially my parents;
 Sawsan Megahed and Abdelaal Ibrahim.
 They have shown unequivocal support from the very beginning and throughout
 the process of completing this thesis as well as my sweethearts; Shaimaa
 and Salma.
 No matter what I say would never suffice to express my gratitude towards
 you.
 Thank you for your understanding, caring and for your presence in my life.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
