#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Conclusion And Future Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
During the past decade, there has been a great interest in RFID due to the
 vast array of applications used in this field.
 RFID systems provide low cost and low power object identification and tracking
 mechanisms, being the key requirement for anticipated ultra dense applications,
 e.g., Logistics.
 In such applications, dense number of tags are expected.
 Furthermore, the number of tags are unknown.
 Thus, the most suitable standard for such applications is the EPCglobal
 C1 G2.
 This standard uses UHF frequency range and passive tags, which gives the
 advantage of having cheap identification process and 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[10]{m}$
\end_inset

 reading range.
 In such systems, there are some challenges that need to be overcome.
 The principle challenge is to have a robust tag anti-collision and hence,
 reducing the mean reading time for a bunch of RFID tags.The conventional
 anti-collision protocol, which is used by EPCglobal C1 G2 is DFSA.
 The main optimization parameters in DFSA is having a precise number of
 tags estimation, then, calculating the optimum frame length, giving the
 optimum reading efficiency and hence, the mean identification time is minimized.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Recently the PHY-Layer of the RFID readers has been improved to possess
 the capability of converting part of the collided slots to successful slots.
 Moreover, the readers have the capability to identify the slot type and
 terminate the empty slots after a certain time out of no tag reply.
 This property allows the reader to convert FSA slots from equal slots duration
 to unequal slots durations.
 All these PHY parameters became important parameters in optimizing the
 MAC anti-collision protocol e.g., number of tags estimation and finding the
 optimum FSA frame length.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this thesis, a promising ML collision recovery aware number of tags estimatio
n algorithm is presented.
 This algorithm uses ML estimation taking into consideration the collision
 recovery capability of the RFID reader.
 Moreover, a closed form solution for the estimated number of tags as a
 function of the used frame length, MAC/PHY layer parameters is proposed.
 This closed form solution reduces the complexity of the system, as neither
 look-up tables nor numerical searching is needed.
 Apart from that, a case study to optimize the FSA frame length is presented.
 Each case study takes into consideration the effect of considering a special
 scenario of PHY layer parameters.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In all previous proposals, all modifications were only in the reader side
 to completely follow the EPCglobal C1 G2 standard.
 However, due to the limitation of the used EPCglobal C1 G2's tags, there
 is still a room of improvement between the mean reading time of the proposed
 algorithm and the theoretical limit of the mean reading time.
 Therefore, new backwards to the EPCglobal C1 G2 standards are presented
 to approach the theoretical limit.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The advanced RFID readers proposed in this thesis improve performances and
 shorten the read out time.
 They incorporate different PHY layer parameters in order to efficiently
 optimize the MAC anti-collision protocols.
 They merged the collision recovery coefficients and the differences in
 slot durations.
 Thus, in order to gain from the collision recovery expertise, changes in
 the number of tags estimations should be applied.
 Besides, the higher collision recovery capability of the system, the shorter
 optimum frame length is recommended.
 According to the differences in slot duration results, the smaller the
 duration of the empty slot compared to that of the collided slot, the longer
 optimum FSA frame length is required.
 Additionally, the evaluation of the complete read out process is performed
 and the obtained results prove that the proposed advanced RFID readers
 significantly decrease the identification time.
 Due to the simple tags implementation in EPCglobal C1 G2, improvements
 in the standards would be recommended to approach the theoretical limit
 of the reading time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Open Issues and Future Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Despite the effort invested in this dissertation, there are still some remining
 issues left that require further investigations.
 To mention but some examples, the influence of the initial frame length
 of the proposed system is neglected.
 The influence of the initial frame length should be analyzed.
 In addition, the MAC layer knowledge of the current SNR should send a feedback
 signal to the PHY layer.
 In this signal, the MAC layer decide to start resolving the current collided
 slot either to a successful or unsuccessful slot, depending on the current
 value of the SNR.
 Thereby, if the current SNR value is below a certain threshold, it might
 be better to leave this slot to a normal collided slot.
 On the other hand, when the current value of the SNR is above this threshold,
 it would be better to resolve this collided slot to a successful slot.
 Last but not least, practical assessment of the proposed work through measureme
nts would be beneficial for a more comprehensive evaluation.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
