#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
The following part of this section describes in details each frequency regarding
 its properties and its applications.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Low Frequency Band
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
LF band is the first band used by RFID systems.
 The operating frequency range for this band is from 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[100]{kHz}$
\end_inset

 to 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[500]{kHz}$
\end_inset

.
 According to low price of the low frequency electronic components, in addition
 to the propagation depth of the operating electromagnetic waves which make
 the communicating signals are least affected by the metal, this made these
 systems are very ideal for applications in which the transponders are surrounde
d by large metallic density.
 Furthermore, LF waves can also propagate through water with minimal attenuation
 compared to higher frequencies.
 This advantage makes the frequency range is the best choice for applications
 include high water content.
 However, the major drawback for such frequancy band is that due to the
 low frequency of the carrier, these systems have limited data rates.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
High Frequency Band
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
RFID HF band is globally all over the world at frequency 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[13.56]{MHz}$
\end_inset

.
 Although signals in the HF range are more affected by metal and have more
 attenuation than the LF range when traveling through water, RFID systems
 operate in the HF range can support higher data rates than LF systems.
 Moreover, the cost of the tags used for HF systems is lower than the tags
 operating in the LF range.
 This is due to the fact that the antennas for HF tags smaller than the
 antennas of LF tags, because the need for less conductive material compared
 to the LF antennas to construct the antennas.
 The main application which uses the RFID HF band is the NFC (Near Field
 Communication).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Ultra High Frequency Band
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
UHF RFID band depends on the country.
 Each group of countries have selected different frequency ranges for their
 UHF RFID system.
 Thus, it is difficult to make each system compatible with the other systems.
 North America assigned frequency range from 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[902]{MHz}$
\end_inset

 to 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[928]{MHz}$
\end_inset

.
 However, Europe has chosen frequency range from 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[860]{MHz}$
\end_inset

to 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[868]{MHz}$
\end_inset

.
 In Japan, the UHF frequency band is from 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[950]{MHz}$
\end_inset

 to 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[956]{MHz}$
\end_inset

.
 Finally, some other countries and regions have assigned other different
 frequency ranges for the UHF RFID band.
 The data rate of the UHF systems is much higher than the LF and the HF
 systems.
 Moreover, the communication between UHF tags and reader is based on electrical
 field instead of the magnetic coupling used by LF and HF systems.
 Finally, the required antennas in UHF systems are much smaller than the
 antennas used for LF and HF systems, which make this system idle for different
 applications.
 The main disadvantages of the UHF systems is they do not work well in the
 environment which consists of metals as these reflect their electromagnetic
 waves.
 In addition, UHF waves is strongly absorbed by the water, making them not
 sufficient for animal implantation.
 Furthermore, the extended read range of UHF transponders may become a drawback
 for those applications that want secured data communication.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Microwave Band
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The operating frequency range for the microwave RFID systems are from 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[2.45]{GHz}$
\end_inset

to 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[5.8]{GHz}$
\end_inset

.
 Although 
\begin_inset Formula $\unit[2.45]{GHz}$
\end_inset

 is in the UHF range, the RFID systems are commonly called it microwave
 range.
 In this frequency range, the LOS (Line Of Sight) propagation is only allowed.
 Microwave signals are also dramatically absorbed by water and destroyed
 by metals.
 The main disadvantage of the microwave system is that it is relative expensive
 system compared to the other system.
 The main advantage for this systems is the very high data rates, and with
 the help of some communication techniques, such as spread spectrum techniques,
 it is possible to achieve noise immunity.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
